# Introduction

This documentation serves as a comprehensive guide to the research conducted by the *Manajemen Kualitas Lingkungan (MKL)* or Environmental Quality Management laboratory at the Sepuluh Nopember Institute of Technology (ITS) in Surabaya, Indonesia. The focus of this research is on the impact of climate change on precipitation patterns, particularly in the context of Indonesia's diverse and complex climate system.

This research workflow can be divided into several key components:
1. [**Setting Up the Environment**](01-Environment_Setup.md): Most of the users' computers are running on Windows, but the tools used in this research mostly are only compatible with UNIX-like operating systems (Linux macOS). Therefore, we will use the Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) to run the tools in this research. We will also install the necessary tools and libraries to run the research, such as Climate Data Operators (CDO), NetCDF Operators (NCO), Python, and MatLab.
2. **Data Collection**: The research relies on three main datasets:
    - [**SA-OBS**](https://sacad.bmkg.go.id/download/grid/download.php): this datasets is a gridded observational dataset compiled by the *Badan Meteorologi, Klimatologi, dan Geofisika* (BMKG) Indonesia and *Koninklijk Nederlands Meteorologisch Instituut* (KMNI) Netherlands. It provides 0.25-degree daily precipitation and temperature data for Southeast Asia, including Indonesia, from 1981 to 2017. Due to the incomplete data, this dataset is only used as a reference for bias-correction methods.
    - [**ERA5-Land**](https://cds.climate.copernicus.eu/datasets/reanalysis-era5-land?tab=overview): this dataset is a reanalysis dataset from the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF) that provides 0.1-degree daily precipitation and temperature data for Global, from 1950 to recent year. This dataset is used as the main observation dataset for the research.
    - [**EC-EARTH3**](https://ec-earth.org/ec-earth/ec-earth3/): this dataset is a CMIP6 model developed by the EC-Earth consortium, a collaboration between 27 research institutes from 10 European countries. It has relatively finer resolution compared to other CMIP6 models, at around 0.7-degree or 16 km. We use this dataset as it was the most suitable CMIP6 for Southeast Asia region. This dataset serves as projection dataset for the research.
3. **Data Pre-Processing**: All of the obtained datasets are required to be processed before doing the analysis. The workflow of the pre-processing is as following:
    - **Remapping**: all of the datasets are going to be remapped into the region of interest (Indonesia in this research), with the finest resolution at 0.1-degree, using lonlat projection.
    - **Daily Calculation**: this step is special only for precipitation dataset from ERA5-Land, as the Copernicus did not provide daily accumulation of precipitation. Other datasets are already provided as daily timestep datasets.
    - **Data Concatenation**: to simplify the file management, we concatenate or combine the datasets as follows:
        1. **SA-OBS**: 1981-2017 (data calibration), 1981-2014 (data calibration), and 2015-2017 (data calibration).
        1. **ERA5-Land**: 1950-1980 (data analysis), 1981-2024 (data analysis), 1981-2017 (data calibration), and 2015-2024 (data analysis).
        2. **EC-EARTH3**: 1981-2014 (data calibration), 2015-2017 (data calibration), 2015-2024 (data analysis), and 2025-2100 (data analysis).
    - **Variable's Unification**: each datasets had their own variable name. To simplify the workflow or code, we will unify the variable name: *pr* for precipitation, *tm* for maximum temperature, *tg* for average temperature, and *tn* for minimum temperature.
    - **Bias-Calibration**: bias is inevitable for climate models. To rectify this problem, we utilized bias-calibration model named [*cmethods*](https://pypi.org/project/python-cmethods/), a python library specified for bias correction of climate dataset.
4. **Data Analysis**: After correcting the bias, we then analysed the data. The first research is to assess the model using Taylor and Target diagram ([*SkillMetrics*](https://github.com/PeterRochford/SkillMetrics)), and calculate climate indices using [*climate_library*](https://pypi.org/project/python-cmethods/). As for the second research, we will calculate the return period of precipitation using [*idf_analysis*](https://pypi.org/project/idf-analysis/).
5. **Data Visualization**: There are many tools that can be used to visualise NetCDF datasets, such as python ([*matplotlib*](https://matplotlib.org/)), R ([*ggplot2*](https://ggplot2.tidyverse.org/)), and [*MatLab*](https://www.mathworks.com/products/matlab.html). We will try each of the tools to decide whichever is the most suitable for the workflow.

If you have any questions or recommendations, feel free to discuss it in the discussion section!